README.md, before:

websocketd
==========

`websocketd` is a small command line tool that will wrap an existing command line interface program, and allow it to be accessed
via a WebSocket. It provides a quick mechanism for allowing web-applications to interact with existing command line tools.

WebSocket servers can now be built very easily. So long as you can write an executable program that reads `STDIN` and writes `STDOUT`, you
can build a WebSocket server. Do it in Python, Ruby, Perl, Bash, .NET, C, Go, PHP, Java, Clojure, Scala, Groovy, Expect, Awk, VBScript,
Haskell, Lua, Rwhatever! No networking libraries necessary.


Details
-------

Upon startup, `websocketd` will start a WebSocket server on the specified port, and listen for connections.

Upon a connection, it will fork the appropriate process, and disconnect the process when the WebSocket connection closes (and vice-versa).

Any message sent from the WebSocket client will be piped to the process `STDIN` stream, followed by a `\n` newline.

Any text printed by the process to `STDOUT` shall be sent as a WebSocket message whenever a `\n` newline is encountered.


Download
--------

**[Download for Linux, OS X and Windows](https://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/wiki/Download-and-install)**


Quickstart
----------

To get started, we'll create a WebSocket endpoint that will accept connections, then send back
messages, counting to 10 with 1 second pause between each one, before disconnecting.

To show how simple it is, let's do it in Bash!

__count.sh__:

    #!/bin/bash
    for COUNT in $(seq 1 10); do
      echo $COUNT
      sleep 1
    done

Before turning it into a WebSocket server, let's test it from the command line. The beauty of `websocketd` is servers
work equally well on the command line, or in shell scripts, as they do in the server - with no modifications required.

    $ chmod +x count.sh
    $ ./count.sh
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10

Now let's turn it into a WebSocket server:

    $ websocketd --port=8080 count.sh

Finally, let's create a web-page that to test it.

__count.html__:

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <pre id="log"></pre>
    <script>
      // helper function: log message to screen
      function log(msg) {
        document.getElementById('log').innerText += msg + '\n';
      }

      // setup websocket with callbacks
      var ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8080/');
      ws.onopen = function() {
        log('CONNECT');
      };
      ws.onclose = function() {
        log('DISCONNECT');
      };
      ws.onmessage = function(event) {
        log('MESSAGE: ' + event.data);
      };
    </script>

Open this page in your web-browser. It will even work if you open it directly
from disk using a `file://` URL.

Embedding Websocketd in your application
----------------------------------------

It is possible to embed websocketd directly inside an existing go
project by registering a handler. Here is an example:

    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        wsd "github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/libwebsocketd"
        "net/http"
    )

    func main() {
        // A log scope allows you to customize the logging that websocketd performs. You can provide your own
        // log scope with a log func.
        logScope := wsd.RootLogScope(wsd.LogAccess, func(l *wsd.LogScope, level wsd.LogLevel, levelName string,
            category string, msg string, args ...interface{}) {
            fmt.Println(args...)
        })
        // Configuration options tell websocketd where to look for programs to run as WebSockets.
        config := &wsd.Config{
            ScriptDir:      "./ws-bin",
            UsingScriptDir: true,
            StartupTime:    time.Now(),
            DevConsole:     true,
        }
        // Register your route and handler.
        http.HandleFunc("/ws-bin/", func(rw http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request) {
            handler := http.StripPrefix("/ws-bin", wsd.HttpWsMuxHandler{
                Config: config,
                Log:    logScope,
            })
            handler.ServeHTTP(rw, req)
        })
        if err := http.ListenAndServe(fmt.Sprintf(":%d", *port), nil); err != nil {
            fmt.Println("could not start server!", err)
            os.Exit(1)
        }
    }

User Manual
-----------

**[More documentation in the user manual](https://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/wiki)**

=======

Commit message:

fix release makefile to not blow away GOPATH. some hacking docs

README.md, after:

websocketd
==========

`websocketd` is a small command line tool that will wrap an existing command line interface program, and allow it to be accessed
via a WebSocket. It provides a quick mechanism for allowing web-applications to interact with existing command line tools.

WebSocket servers can now be built very easily. So long as you can write an executable program that reads `STDIN` and writes `STDOUT`, you
can build a WebSocket server. Do it in Python, Ruby, Perl, Bash, .NET, C, Go, PHP, Java, Clojure, Scala, Groovy, Expect, Awk, VBScript,
Haskell, Lua, Rwhatever! No networking libraries necessary.


Details
-------

Upon startup, `websocketd` will start a WebSocket server on the specified port, and listen for connections.

Upon a connection, it will fork the appropriate process, and disconnect the process when the WebSocket connection closes (and vice-versa).

Any message sent from the WebSocket client will be piped to the process `STDIN` stream, followed by a `\n` newline.

Any text printed by the process to `STDOUT` shall be sent as a WebSocket message whenever a `\n` newline is encountered.


Download
--------

**[Download for Linux, OS X and Windows](https://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/wiki/Download-and-install)**


Quickstart
----------

To get started, we'll create a WebSocket endpoint that will accept connections, then send back
messages, counting to 10 with 1 second pause between each one, before disconnecting.

To show how simple it is, let's do it in Bash!

__count.sh__:

    #!/bin/bash
    for COUNT in $(seq 1 10); do
      echo $COUNT
      sleep 1
    done

Before turning it into a WebSocket server, let's test it from the command line. The beauty of `websocketd` is servers
work equally well on the command line, or in shell scripts, as they do in the server - with no modifications required.

    $ chmod +x count.sh
    $ ./count.sh
    1
    2
    3
    4
    5
    6
    7
    8
    9
    10

Now let's turn it into a WebSocket server:

    $ websocketd --port=8080 count.sh

Finally, let's create a web-page that to test it.

__count.html__:

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <pre id="log"></pre>
    <script>
      // helper function: log message to screen
      function log(msg) {
        document.getElementById('log').innerText += msg + '\n';
      }

      // setup websocket with callbacks
      var ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8080/');
      ws.onopen = function() {
        log('CONNECT');
      };
      ws.onclose = function() {
        log('DISCONNECT');
      };
      ws.onmessage = function(event) {
        log('MESSAGE: ' + event.data);
      };
    </script>

Open this page in your web-browser. It will even work if you open it directly
from disk using a `file://` URL.

Embedding Websocketd in your application
----------------------------------------

It is possible to embed websocketd directly inside an existing go
project by registering a handler. Here is an example:

    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        wsd "github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/libwebsocketd"
        "net/http"
    )

    func main() {
        // A log scope allows you to customize the logging that websocketd performs. You can provide your own
        // log scope with a log func.
        logScope := wsd.RootLogScope(wsd.LogAccess, func(l *wsd.LogScope, level wsd.LogLevel, levelName string,
            category string, msg string, args ...interface{}) {
            fmt.Println(args...)
        })
        // Configuration options tell websocketd where to look for programs to run as WebSockets.
        config := &wsd.Config{
            ScriptDir:      "./ws-bin",
            UsingScriptDir: true,
            StartupTime:    time.Now(),
            DevConsole:     true,
        }
        // Register your route and handler.
        http.HandleFunc("/ws-bin/", func(rw http.ResponseWriter, req *http.Request) {
            handler := http.StripPrefix("/ws-bin", wsd.HttpWsMuxHandler{
                Config: config,
                Log:    logScope,
            })
            handler.ServeHTTP(rw, req)
        })
        if err := http.ListenAndServe(fmt.Sprintf(":%d", *port), nil); err != nil {
            fmt.Println("could not start server!", err)
            os.Exit(1)
        }
    }

Hacking on Websocketd
---------------------

Install Go
----------

Use apt, homebrew etc or install directly from source. Follow the instructions at http://golang.org/doc/install.

Building Websocketd
-------------------

Make sure you have set your `$GOPATH` to somewhere, e.g: `$HOME/gocode`:

    $ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/joewalnes
    $ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/joewalnes
    $ git clone https://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd
    $ cd websocketd
    $ make

This will build the binary which you can run to play with. If you just wish to run it, you can do:

    $ go run *.go


User Manual
-----------

**[More documentation in the user manual](https://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/wiki)**

=======
