.\" Manpage for websocketd.
.\" Contact abc@alexsergeyev.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH websocketd 1 "9 Jul 2026" "0.5.0" "websocketd man page"
.SH NAME
websocketd \- turns any program that uses STDIN/STDOUT into a WebSocket server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
websocketd [options] COMMAND [command args]

or

websocketd [options] --dir=SOMEDIR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwebsocketd\fR is a command line tool that will allow any executable program
that accepts input on stdin and produces output on stdout to be turned into
a WebSocket server.

To learn more about websocketd visit \fIhttp://websocketd.com\fR and project WIKI
on GitHub!
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of the options supported by websocketd is included below.
.PP
\-\-port=PORT
.RS 4
HTTP port to listen on.
.RE
.PP
\-\-address=ADDRESS
.RS 4
Address to bind to (multiple options allowed). Use square brackets to specify IPv6 address. Default: "" (all)
.RE
.PP
\-\-sameorigin={true,false}
.RS 4
Restrict (HTTP 403) protocol upgrades if the Origin header does not match to requested HTTP Host. Default: false.
.RE
.PP
--origin=host[:port][,host[:port]...]
.RS 4
Restrict (HTTP 403) protocol upgrades if the Origin header does not match to one of the host and port combinations listed. If the port is not specified, any port number will match.  Default: "" (allow any origin)
.RE
.PP
\-\-ssl \-\-sslcert=FILE \-\-sslkey=FILE
.RS 4
Listen for HTTPS socket instead of HTTP. All three options must be used or all of them should be omitted.
.RE
.PP
\-\-sslca=FILE
.RS 4
Require clients to present a certificate signed by this CA (mutual TLS). Only takes effect together with \-\-ssl.
.RE
.PP
\-\-redirport=PORT
.RS 4
Open alternative port and redirect HTTP traffic from it to canonical address (mostly useful for HTTPS-only configurations to redirect HTTP traffic).
.RE
.PP
\-\-passenv VAR[,VAR...]
.RS 4
Lists environment variables allowed to be passed to executed scripts. Does not work for Windows since all the variables are kept there.
.RE
.PP
\-\-binary={true,false}
.RS 4
Switches communication to binary: process reads are sent to the browser as blobs and all reads from the browser are immediately flushed to the process. Default: false
.RE
.PP
\-\-reverselookup={true,false}
.RS 4
Perform DNS reverse lookups on remote clients. Default: false
.RE
.PP
\-\-maxforks=N
.RS 4
Limit number of processes that websocketd is able to execute with WS and CGI handlers. When maxforks is reached the server will reject requests that require executing another process (unlimited when 0 or negative). Default: 0
.RE
.PP
\-\-closems=milliseconds
.RS 4
Specifies additional time a process needs to gracefully finish before websocketd sends termination signals to it. Default: 0 (signals sent after 100ms, 250ms, and 500ms of waiting)
.RE
.PP
\-\-pingms=milliseconds
.RS 4
Send WebSocket pings at this interval and drop connections that miss pongs for twice that long, detecting dead clients. Default: 0 (disabled)
.RE
.PP
\-\-header="..."
.RS 4
Set custom HTTP header on each response. For example: \-\-header="Server: someserver/0.0.1"
.RE
.PP
\-\-header\-ws="..."
.RS 4
Same as \-\-header, but applies only to responses that upgrade the TCP connection to the WebSocket protocol.
.RE
.PP
\-\-header\-http="..."
.RS 4
Same as \-\-header, but applies only to plain HTTP responses that do not upgrade to WebSocket.
.RE
.PP
\-\-dir=DIR
.RS 4
Allow all scripts in the local directory to be accessed as WebSockets. If using this, option, then the standard program and args options should not be specified.
.RE
.PP
\-\-staticdir=DIR
.RS 4
Serve static files in this directory over HTTP.
.RE
.PP
\-\-cgidir=DIR
.RS 4
Serve CGI scripts in this directory over HTTP.
.RE
.PP
\-\-help
.RS 4
Print help and exit.
.RE
.PP
\-\-version
.RS 4
Print version and exit.
.RE
.PP
\-\-license
.RS 4
Print license and exit.
.RE
.PP
\-\-devconsole
.RS 4
Enable interactive development console. This enables you to access the websocketd server with a web-browser and use a user interface to quickly test WebSocket endpoints. For example, to test an endpoint at ws://[host]/foo, you can visit http://[host]/foo in your browser. This flag cannot be used in conjunction with \-\-staticdir or \-\-cgidir.
.RE
.PP
\-\-loglevel=LEVEL
.RS 4
Log level to use (default access). From most to least verbose: debug, trace, access, info, error, fatal
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.RS 2
* full documentation at \fIhttp://websocketd.com\fR
.RE
.RS 2
* project source at \fIhttps://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd\fR
.RE
.SH BUGS
The only known condition so far is that certain applications in programming languages that enforce implicit STDOUT buffering (Perl, Python, etc.) would be producing unexpected data passing
delays when run under \fBwebsocketd\fR. Such issues could be solved by editing the source code of those applications (prohibiting buffering) or modifying their environment to trick them
into autoflush mode (e.g. pseudo-terminal wrapper "unbuffer").

Active issues in development are discussed on GitHub: \fIhttps://github.com/joewalnes/websocketd/issues\fR.

Please use that page to share your concerns and ideas about \fBwebsocketd\fR, authors would greatly appreciate your help!
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright 2013-2014 Joe Walnes and the websocketd team. All rights reserved.

BSD license: Run 'websocketd \-\-license' for details.
